---
title: "Section Annex.D: IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual"
document: "VHDL Language Reference Manual"
standard: "IEEE 1076-2019"
domain: "VHDL"
section: "Annex.D"
source_txt: "section-Annex_D-informative-potentially-non-portable-constructs.txt"
source_pdf: "/Users/richarddje/Documents/github/VHDL-LRM-IEEE-1076-2019.pdf"
---

# Section Annex.D: IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual

IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
557
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
Annex D
(informative)
Potentially non-portable constructs
This annex lists those VHDL constructs whose use may result  non-portable descriptions.
A description is considered portable if it
a)
Compiles, elaborates, initializes, and simulates to termination of the simulation cycle on all
conformant implementations, and
b)
The time-variant state of all signals and variables in the description are the same at all times during
the simulation,
under the condition that the same stimuli are applied at the same times to the description. The stimuli applied
to a model include the values supplied to generics and ports at the root of the design hierarchy of the model,
if any.
Note that the content of files generated by a description are not part of the state of the description, but that
the content of files consumed by a description are part of the state of the description.
The use of the following constructs may lead to non-portable VHDL descriptions:
—
Resolution functions that do not treat all inputs symmetrically
—
The comparison of floating-point values
—
Events on floating-point-valued signals
—
The use of explicit type conversion to convert floating-point values to integer values
—
Any value that does not fall within the minimum range required to be implemented for the type
—
The use of architectures and subprogram bodies implemented via the foreign language interface (the
'FOREIGN attribute)
—
Processes that communicate via file I/O, including TEXTIO
—
Impure functions
—
Linkage ports
—
Ports and generics in the root of a design hierarchy
—
Use of a time resolution greater than 1 fs
—
Shared variables
—
Procedure calls passing a single object of an array or record type to multiple formals where at least
one of the formals is of mode out or inout
—
Models that depend on a particular format of T'IMAGE
—
Declarations of integer types or physical types that have a secondary unit whose position number is
outside of the range –(263) to (263)–1.
—
The predefined attributes 'INSTANCE_NAME or 'PATH_NAME, if the behavior of the model is
dependent on the values returned by the attributes
—
Use of a conversion specifier F, a, or A in the value for the FORMAT parameter of a call to the
predefined function TO_STRING
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
